# AOCSUITE
A parser / solving suite for Advent of Code problems with support for python and rust.
This is still under development and is not available on PyPi so far.

## Installation

I recommend installing through pipx by first cloning this repository and then installing it

```{bash}
git clone https://github.com/chrhjoh/aocsuite.git && cd aocsuite && pipx install .
```
This will make the package available from the command line and callable using 
```{bash}
aocsuite
```

## Usage

The `aocsuite` tool provides several commands to manage and run Advent of Code exercises. Below are the available commands and their options:

Note that it currently is required to run `init` to create the folder structure and `new` to create the files for each day

### Commands

- `init`: Initialize a base directory structure for `aocsuite`. This will create a data and language-specific folder.
- `new`: Download exercise files and create a solution directory for the specified language.
- `download`: Fetch the exercise description and data to the directory. Useful when you want the second exercise of the day. This is called automatically in case of a correct first exercise.
- `template`: Reapply the template of the specified language. This will try to apply the template to both the base files and the current chosen exercise.
- `open`: Open the editor on the specified day.
- `calendar`: Fetch the calendar for the specified year.
- `run`: Run the exercise for the specified language. This will also run submit unless `--no-submit` is specified.
- `submit`: Submit an answer to Advent of Code.

### Options

- `--base-dir`: Specify the base directory to be used (default is the current working directory).
- `--day`, `-d`: Specify the day (1-25) you are working on (default is the current day).
- `--year`, `-y`: Specify the year (>=2015) you are working on (default is the current year).
- `--exercise`, `-e`: Specify the exercise to run and submit (default is 1). Choices are [1, 2].
- `--force`, `-f`: Force overwriting of files generated by `init`, `new`, `download` and `template`. This has no effect on other commands.
- `--input`, `-i`: Specify the input data to be used for `run`. Choices are `input` or `example` (default is `input`).
- `--language`, `-l`: Specify the language to be used for `initialize` and `run` (default is `python`). The language can also be specified in a `aocsuite.json` file.
- `--no-submit`: Do not submit the exercises to Advent of Code when doing `run`. It will never submit if the input is `example`.
By default the current day / year is used. To overwrite this please use the commands
### Example

```sh
aocsuite init --base-dir /path/to/base
aocsuite new --day 1 --year 2023 --language python
aocsuite run --day 1 --year 2023 --exercise 1 --input example

